README.md, before:

# Introduction
Xibo - Digital Signage - https://xibo.org.uk
Copyright (C) 2006-2020 Xibo Signage Ltd and Contributors.



#### Branches

- develop: Work in progress toward 2.3
- master: Currently 2.2
- release23: Bug fixes for 2.3
- release22: Bug fixes for 2.2
- release18: Work in progress toward the next 1.8
- release17: Archive of 1.7
- release1.6.4: Archive of 1.6



## Licence
Xibo is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
any later version.

Xibo is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along with Xibo.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.



# Installation

Installing an official release is [described in the manual](http://xibo.org.uk/manual/en/install_cms.html) and in the release notes of each release.



# Developing

**Please only install a Development environment if you intend make code changes to Xibo. Installing from the repository is not suitable for a production installation.**

Xibo uses Docker to ensure all contributors have a repeatable development environment which is easy to get up and running.

The very same Docker containers are used in our recommended end user installation to promote consistency from development to deployment.

To these ends this repository includes a `docker-compose.yml` file to spin up a model development environment.



## Prerequisites

The development Docker containers do not automatically build vendor files for PHP or JS, this is left as a developer responsibility. Therefore you will need the following tools:

 - Git
 - [Composer](http://getcomposer.org)
 - NPM (coming in 2.0)
 - Docker





## Clone the repository

Create a folder in your development workspace and clone the repository. If you intend to make changes and submit pull requests please Fork us first and create a new branch.

```sh
git clone git@github.com:<your_id>/xibo-cms.git xibo-cms
```



## Install dependencies

Change into your new folder

```sh
cd xibo-cms
```

We recommend installing the dependencies via Docker, so that you are guarenteed consistent dependencies across different development machines.

### PHP dependencies

```bash
docker run --interactive --tty --volume $PWD:/app --volume ~/.composer:/tmp composer install
```

This command also mounts the Composer `/tmp` folder into your home directory so that you can take advantage of Composer caching.

### Website dependencies (webpack)

```bash
docker run -it --volume $PWD:/app --volume ~/.npm:/root/.npm -w /app node:12 sh -c "npm install webpack -g; npm install; npm run build;"
```

### Mapped Volumes

The development version of Xibo expects the code base to be mapped into the container such that changes on the host
are reflected in the container.

However, the container itself creates some files, such as the twig cache and library uploads. These locations will need
to be created and the container given access to them.

The easiest way to do this is to make the `cache` and `library` folders and `chmod 777` them. Obviously this is not
suitable for production, but you shouldn't be using these files for production (we have containers for that).

### API Keys
The API requires a pub/private RSA keypair and an encryption key to be provided. The location for these should be
in `settings-custom.php` in an array called `$apiKeyPaths`.

For example: 

```php
$apiKeyPaths = [
    'publicKeyPath' => '/var/www/cms/custom/public.key',
    'privateKeyPath' => '/var/www/cms/custom/private.key',
    'encryptionKey' => ''
];
```

On Linux you can generate a RSA key pair using the following steps:

```shell script
openssl genrsa -out private.key 2048
openssl rsa -in private.key -pubout -out public.key
chmod 600 public.key
```

The encryption key should be 32 random bytes, you can generate one using the below:

```shell script
php -r 'echo base64_encode(random_bytes(32)), PHP_EOL;'
```

## Bring up the Containers

Use Docker Compose to bring up the containers.

```sh
docker-compose up --build -d
```

## Login
After the containers have come up you should be able to login with the details:

U: `xibo_admin`
P: `password`


## Translations
To parse the translations:

```bash
docker-compose exec web sh -c "cd /var/www/cms; rm -R ./cache"
docker-compose exec web sh -c "cd /var/www/cms; php bin/locale.php"
```

```bash
find ./locale ./cache ./lib ./web  -iname "*.php" -print0 | xargs -0 xgettext --from-code=UTF-8 -k_e -k_x -k__ -o locale/default.pot
```

To import translations:

```bash
bzr pull lp:~dangarner/xibo/swift-translations
```

Convert to `mo` format:

```bash
for i in *.po; do msgfmt "$i" -o $(echo $i | sed s/po/mo/); done
```

Move the resulting `mo` files into your `locale` folder.

## Swagger API Docs
To generate a `swagger.json` file, with the dev containers running:

```bash
docker-compose exec web sh -c "cd /var/www/cms; vendor/bin/swagger lib -o web/swagger.json"
```

# Application Structure

To find out more about the application code and how everything fits together, please refer to 
the [developer docs](https://xibo.org.uk/docs/developer).



# Contributing

The standard licence for Xibo is the [AGPLv3](LICENSE). For more information please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).


# Reporting Problems

Support requests can be reported on the [Xibo Community Forum](https://community.xibo.org.uk/c/dev). Verified, 
re-producable bugs with this repository can be reported in 
the [Xibo parent repository](https://github.com/xibosignage/xibo/issues).

Commit message:

Generate private/public key and encryption key in entrypoint.sh. Refactor code to use these keys (with optional settings.php override)

README.md, after:

# Introduction
Xibo - Digital Signage - https://xibo.org.uk
Copyright (C) 2006-2020 Xibo Signage Ltd and Contributors.



#### Branches

- develop: Work in progress toward 2.3
- master: Currently 2.2
- release23: Bug fixes for 2.3
- release22: Bug fixes for 2.2
- release18: Work in progress toward the next 1.8
- release17: Archive of 1.7
- release1.6.4: Archive of 1.6



## Licence
Xibo is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
any later version.

Xibo is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along with Xibo.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.



# Installation

Installing an official release is [described in the manual](http://xibo.org.uk/manual/en/install_cms.html) and in the release notes of each release.



# Developing

**Please only install a Development environment if you intend make code changes to Xibo. Installing from the repository is not suitable for a production installation.**

Xibo uses Docker to ensure all contributors have a repeatable development environment which is easy to get up and running.

The very same Docker containers are used in our recommended end user installation to promote consistency from development to deployment.

To these ends this repository includes a `docker-compose.yml` file to spin up a model development environment.



## Prerequisites

The development Docker containers do not automatically build vendor files for PHP or JS, this is left as a developer responsibility. Therefore you will need the following tools:

 - Git
 - [Composer](http://getcomposer.org)
 - NPM (coming in 2.0)
 - Docker





## Clone the repository

Create a folder in your development workspace and clone the repository. If you intend to make changes and submit pull requests please Fork us first and create a new branch.

```sh
git clone git@github.com:<your_id>/xibo-cms.git xibo-cms
```



## Install dependencies

Change into your new folder

```sh
cd xibo-cms
```

We recommend installing the dependencies via Docker, so that you are guarenteed consistent dependencies across different development machines.

### PHP dependencies

```bash
docker run --interactive --tty --volume $PWD:/app --volume ~/.composer:/tmp composer install
```

This command also mounts the Composer `/tmp` folder into your home directory so that you can take advantage of Composer caching.

### Website dependencies (webpack)

```bash
docker run -it --volume $PWD:/app --volume ~/.npm:/root/.npm -w /app node:12 sh -c "npm install webpack -g; npm install; npm run build;"
```

### Mapped Volumes

The development version of Xibo expects the code base to be mapped into the container such that changes on the host
are reflected in the container.

However, the container itself creates some files, such as the twig cache and library uploads. These locations will need
to be created and the container given access to them.

The easiest way to do this is to make the `cache` and `library` folders and `chmod 777` them. Obviously this is not
suitable for production, but you shouldn't be using these files for production (we have containers for that).

### API Keys
The API requires a pub/private RSA keypair and an encryption key to be provided. The docker entrypoint will create 
these in `/library/certs`.

You can override the generated keys paths and encryption key by providing an alternative in `settings-custom.php`.
For example: 

```php
$apiKeyPaths = [
    'publicKeyPath' => '/var/www/cms/custom/public.key',
    'privateKeyPath' => '/var/www/cms/custom/private.key',
    'encryptionKey' => ''
];
```


## Bring up the Containers

Use Docker Compose to bring up the containers.

```sh
docker-compose up --build -d
```

## Login
After the containers have come up you should be able to login with the details:

U: `xibo_admin`
P: `password`


## Translations
To parse the translations:

```bash
docker-compose exec web sh -c "cd /var/www/cms; rm -R ./cache"
docker-compose exec web sh -c "cd /var/www/cms; php bin/locale.php"
```

```bash
find ./locale ./cache ./lib ./web  -iname "*.php" -print0 | xargs -0 xgettext --from-code=UTF-8 -k_e -k_x -k__ -o locale/default.pot
```

To import translations:

```bash
bzr pull lp:~dangarner/xibo/swift-translations
```

Convert to `mo` format:

```bash
for i in *.po; do msgfmt "$i" -o $(echo $i | sed s/po/mo/); done
```

Move the resulting `mo` files into your `locale` folder.

## Swagger API Docs
To generate a `swagger.json` file, with the dev containers running:

```bash
docker-compose exec web sh -c "cd /var/www/cms; vendor/bin/swagger lib -o web/swagger.json"
```

# Application Structure

To find out more about the application code and how everything fits together, please refer to 
the [developer docs](https://xibo.org.uk/docs/developer).



# Contributing

The standard licence for Xibo is the [AGPLv3](LICENSE). For more information please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).


# Reporting Problems

Support requests can be reported on the [Xibo Community Forum](https://community.xibo.org.uk/c/dev). Verified, 
re-producable bugs with this repository can be reported in 
the [Xibo parent repository](https://github.com/xibosignage/xibo/issues).
